{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f1\fnil Courier New;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green77\blue187;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\b\f0\fs28 USING TIMELINE\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\fs20 Version 2\par
(2.0.0.1)\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\fs22\par
(1) INTRODUCTION\par
\ulnone This program displays events from a GEDCOM file chronologically on Google Maps. Depending on settings, these can include Births, Baptisims, Marriages, Residences, Deaths and Burials for all individuals in the file provided that each event is associated with an individual name, valid date, and resolvable placename.  The resulting HTML file runs in a browser window. \par
\ul (2) USING THE PROGRAM\par
\ulnone Step\b0  \b\i 1\b0\i0  \b - If using Family Tree Maker, choose File-> Export-> and select\par
"GEDCOM" under "Output Format".  You can uncheck all or most of the options regarding private individuals and data.\par
Step \i 2\i0  - When the "Export to Gedcom" dialog appears, select "Other" for destination and "UTF-8"  or "ASCII" for Character Set, then save the file where you want.\par
Step \i 3\i0  - Start Timeline, then open the folder with GEDCOM file in it and drag the file into the "GED Source File" textbox. Click the "\cf1 Get GED File\cf0 " Button. The Ged file data will appear in the form. You can also click the \cf2 Get GED File button with the text box empty to \cf1 Browse \cf2 for a GED file\cf1 .\cf0\par
Step \i 4\i0  - Click the "\cf1 Timeline Data\cf0 " Button. This will create a Timeline dataset from the GED file to be used in the Web application. The resulting timeline data will display in the main form window. Each timeline record is an "event", individuals in the original GED file typically having multiple events coded as births,deaths,baptisms, marriages, etc. Since the original GED files may contain duplicate events, such as two different birthdays for the same person (especially true for GED files exported from Family Tree Maker), the option to scan for and remove such duplicate events is part of the processing cycle.\par
Step \i 5\i0  - Click \cf3 "\cf1 AutoFix\cf3 " \cf0 to remove duplicate events and those with bad or missing dates and place names.\par
Step \i 6\i0  - Click "\cf1 GeoCode\cf0 ". The program will use the Google Maps API to resolve placenames in the file to map locations. This process may take several minutes for a large family tree. Some entries may not be coded because maps doesn't recognize the address or there are two many code requests sent at one time, in which case the return codes, which are visible in the timeline data after coding will show "OVER_QUERY_LIMIT". If some entries have this result, run the GeoCoder again and missing entries should eventually come back coded unless the addresses are not recognizable to Google Maps. If a record displays "ZERO_RESULTS", then the API could not resolve the address as presented. If the Saved Address List contains data, it will be searched first (See TOOLS - ADDRESS CACHE below).\par
Step \i 7\i0  - You can run the\cf3  \cf1 AutoFix\cf0  process once more to purge the entries without geocodes, then Click \cf1 Create Web Page\cf3 ,\cf0  which will generate the HTML file that displays the results. Save the file, which is called "timelinewebpage.html" by default, in the same directory as the timeline program which also includes an icon file called \ul "person.png" \ulnone used to display a custom icon when the browser is running.  Once saved, this file will open in your default browser.  Click the \cf1 Start\cf3  \cf0 to watch your ancestors births, deaths and other events appear as markers on the map chronologically.  You can\cf3  \cf1 Stop\cf3  \cf0 or Reset the Web App with the buttons at the top. Clicking on a marker displays that individual's name and the event plotted. \cf1 Zoom\cf0  buttons can be used to adjust the zoom level. The \cf1 Heat Map \cf0 button toggles a heat map layer showing the distribution of events on the map. Use The \cf1 Close Information Windows \cf2 button to clear all open marker windows.\cf0\par
You can run the web application at any time by simply navigating to its directory and double-clicking it. Note that if the "person.png" icon file is not in the same directory as the timelinewebpage.html file, the default icon will appear in the map when the app is running. You can replace the provided person.png icon with any 24 x 24 png image file, provided you use the same filename.\par
\ul SETTINGS AND OPTIONS\par
\ulnone MENU -> OPTIONS -> SETTINGS\par
This form allows the user to select the type of events to include in the Web application, set the Google Maps API Key which is required to use the GeoCode functions offered by Google Maps, and set other user preferences.\par
You can test the installed Maps API key by clicking the "\cf1 Test\cf0 " button which will turn green if the code works properly. If the API key is missing or doesn't work. You can get your own code from Google - just follow the link at the bottom of the settings form. The program needs a valid key to code addresses.  Once you get a new code, fill in the API Key field, Click \cf1 Save Settings \cf0 and then go to File->Preferences->Save User Settings to save your configuration.  Save the preference file in the same folder as the timeline.exe program so it will be loaded automatically at startup. Note that Google has a daily limit of the number of permitted geocode requests that it will process for free from each user.  Hence, saving the complete geocoded timeline datafile is recommended when exiting the program (see below).  Using the Save Addresses feature can also reduce the number of geocode requests\par
\ul TOOLS & FEATURES\par
\ulnone The Tools Menu is mostly self-explanatory, with individual functions to view and remove timeline data entries with bad or missing dates, duplicate events or geocodes. \cf3  \cf1 Longevity Analysis \cf0 calculates the average lifespan of ancestors in the data file (displayed at the bottom of the list of ancestors and their ages). \cf1 Display List of Individuals \cf2 lists individuals sorted by their IND FIELD NUMBER in the original GED file. This is the number right before the name, insuring that each GED individual name is unique and different individuals with the same name are not confused. In this view, \cf1 right-clicking \cf2 an individual will shows his or her associated events in the timeline. Each listed event can then be edited or deleted by right clicking on the \cf1 Record Number, \cf2 which will bring up an associated context menu. These changes are saved in the main timeline events list.\cf1\par
\cf2\ul TOOLS - ADDRESS CACHE\par
\lang1033\ulnone Fully geocoded addresses in the current timeline dataset can be saved in the \cf1 Address Cache \cf2 for re-use. Click \cf1 Tools -> Update Saved Addresses. \cf2 From the File Menu, choose \cf1 File -> Save Addresses \cf2 to save a datafile of locations that have been geocoded, the default filename being "timelineaddressfile.dat". This is useful if you re-export the original Family Tree Maker tree as a gedcom to Timeline, perhaps after adding more people to the tree. Then, load the addressfile from the \cf1 File Menu -> Load Addresses\cf2 . Make a new timeline dataset (Click the \cf1 Timeline Data\cf2  button).  When you Geocode this data, Timeline will search the known locations list first, before querying the Google API, which speeds up the coding process and reduces the number of Google queries necessary to complete the task. Only new locations will require an API request. Once done, you can add any new locations to the current address list using \cf1 Update Saved Addresses, \cf2 and save the updated address file for future use again. The \cf1 Tools Menu\cf2  offers additional options to \cf1 View\cf2  and \cf1 Clear\cf2  the Saved Address list, as well.  If the list is empty, Timeline will query the Google API for all geocoding.\cf0\lang9\par
The\cf3  \cf1 View JavaScript \cf0 button will display the JS code generated from the timeline data for the web application. This is program generated and cannot be edited manually.\par
When the TimeLine Data is visible in the main form, \cf1 Right-Click \cf0 an entry to bring up an \cf1 editing window \cf0 if you want manually edit that entry. This can be useful for names or addresses with typographical errors that may not geocode properly. There is also an option to \cf1 delete\cf0  the selected record. You may want to save a copy of the datafile, since deletes are permanent.\par
The \cf1 Magnifying Glass \cf2 Button above the View Window brings up a Search Dialog that finds text in whatever data is being displayed in the Current View. \cf3\par
\cf0\ul SAVING THE TIMELINE DATAFILE\par
\ulnone The timeline data file should be saved, especially once it has been cleaned up and geocoded, so it can be used again without duplicating those steps. Choose File-> Save DataFile. The existing datafile can then be opened from the File Menu for later use. Note that if an existing datafile is loaded, it will no longer include persons or events from the original GED file that were removed by the program, as for example when entries without dates are purged by the AUTOFIX function. Hence, it may contain fewer individuals than the source GED.\par
\ul EDITING TIMELINE DATA ENTRIES\par
\ulnone When viewing the timeline data records, \cf1 Right-Click \cf0 the line with the RECORD NUMBER to access the context menu. This will in turn open an Edit window where the record can be manually edited. Remember that each record represent an EVENT not an individual, who may have multiple events in the datafile.\par
\ul NOTES & UPDATES\f1\par
\lang1033\ulnone\f0 04-30-2017 Version 2.0.0.1\par
- Fixed Bug where GEDCOM parser finds no individuals because files exported from Ancestry.com include a trailing space at the end of each line. \par
04-25-2017 Version 2.0.0.0\par
- Updated Web Page Code\par
- Added: Address Caching, Search Current View Feature\lang9\ul\par
\ulnone 04-10-2016 Version 1.0.2.6\par
- Option to save geocoded addresses for re-use added.\par
- Right Click context menu in Individuals List shows associated events for the individual selected.\f1\par
\lang1033\f0 - Context menu in the timeline data view now offers both Edit and Delete record options.\par
- Web page tested in Firefox and Edge Browsers under Windows 10, GEDCOM import tested with Family Tree Maker 2014 and 2014.1 (MacKiev Version). Webpage layout updated.\par
\lang9 09-16-2016 Version 1.0.2.3\par
- BugFix: GED IND number is now added to the beginning of each individual name to avoid confusion when two separate people have the same name.\par
- List of Individuals sorted by GED number can now be displayed.\par
- Known Issue: Marriage events are not processed correctly \par
\par
\par
}
 